Arvind Kejriwal was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate last month in connection with the money laundering probe linked to the Delhi excise policy case. Last week, a Delhi court sent him to judicial custody till April 15.

Arvind Kejriwal had moved the Supreme Court after the Delhi high court said there was no contravention of legal provisions.

The Delhi high court ruled that the Enforcement Directorate had sufficient materials to justify the arrest of Arvind Kejriwal. The court said the agency could not be blamed for choosing the timing of the chief minister's arrest as he pushed it to a point where it had no other option.

The 103-page judgment by the single judge bench of justice Swarana Kanta Sharma observed that material placed on record before the court showed that Kejriwal had allegedly conspired with other persons and was involved in the formulation of the policy.

Also read: 'Inhuman': Sanjay Singh claims Sunita Kejriwal asked to meet Arvind Kejriwal through glass window

“He (Kejriwal) is allegedly involved in the offence of money laundering in two capacities. Firstly, in his personal capacity as he was involved in the formulation of the excise policy and in demanding kickbacks. Secondly, in his capacity as the national convenor of the Aam Aadmi Party as per Section 70(1) of PMLA, for use of proceeds of crime of ₹45 crore in AAP’s election campaign in 2022 Goa elections," the court said.

Also read: Arvind Kejriwal moves SC after Delhi HC setback in money laundering case

Arvind Kejriwal had approached the high court on March 23, claiming the ED's action violated his fundamental rights and was motivated by politics.

Apart from Kejriwal, AAP leader Manish Sisodia has been in jail since February last year in the same case. Sanjay Singh, another AAP leader in jail, recently got bail in the case.

Also read: 'K Kavitha forced Sharath Reddy to pay ₹25 crore to AAP': CBI in court

The CBI and ED have alleged that AAP leaders accepted ₹100 crore as kickbacks from a group of politicians and liquor businessmen to grant licenses to them under the now-scrapped Delhi excise policy. They claim that the policy favoured certain liquor traders at the expense of the public exchequer.